# LFO-SC-V3.0
LFO Souce Code v3.0
LFO: the First Local Family Owned Secure, Cost-efficient and Decentralized Cryptocurrency for  communities. 
Version 3.0 May 23, 2015
Jeff Grant 
jeff@kingcountylfo.com

Preface
This intitial launch of LFO Coin Project hopes that this white paper will spark an honest, fact-based debate on the pros and cons of the two main existing systems used to provide security for peer-to-peer cryptocurrencies: proof-of-work and proof-of-stake and proof of integrity.
LFO believes that its own marketing models are more effective in bringing in mainstream cryptocurrency users. As such, LFO is the first peer-to- peer cryptocurrency, regardless of technology, that is secure, cost-efficient and decentralized in the long run, and involved bringing in community awareness thru business transactions with home owners and local family owned businesses.
This LFO Project is requesting any and all members of the cryptocurrency community to make comments, suggest edits, point out potential flaws in the paper, or even add their specialty skills to the further technological development of this blockchain technology. LFO bounties will be rewarded by the LFO Code foundation for all constructive input, both positive and critical (click here for details).
Note that this paper does not discuss consensus algorithms based on trusted nodes (the systems used by Ripple and Stellar) because while that protocol has similar benefits to those of proof-of-integrity, it requires users to trust third parties and beyond that, depends on trustworthy third parties to support the network by operating nodes, which may or may not happen over time.
Also not covered in this paper is the enormous side benefit derived from not having to distribute the currency supply to proof-of-work miners to cover their operating costs. Capitalizing on this opportunity, LFO distributes the currency strategically to all the participants who increase its utility and value. Please visit LFO’s wiki  for a summary of LFO’s distribution and user adoption plans.
LFO is a decentralized peer-to-peer cryptocurrency derived from Litecoin, which itself was derived from Peercoin, and itself from open source whitepaper of Satoshi Nakamoto’s Bitcoin. 
LFO increases security relative to Peercoin and other existing proof-of-work currencies in numerous ways, including: (1) incentivizing nodes to continuously stake coins over time through substantially higher mining rewards and lower minimum stake age; (2) abandoning the use of coin age in the mining formula; (3) causing the stake modifier pa¬rameter to change over time for each stake; and (4) utilizing a client that punishes nodes that attempt to mine on multiple branches with duplicate stakes.
This paper demonstrates how LFO’s proof-of-integrity implementation addresses all commonly raised “nothing at stake” objections to generic proof-of-integrity systems. It also reviews many of the flaws of proof-of-work designs to highlight the potential for an alter¬nate cryptocurrency that solves these flaws.

1	Introduction
LFO’s technical ambition is to create a cryptocurrency utilizing a POI algo that FIC created, along with keeping all parties honest, secure, cost-efficient and decentralize. This paper explains why LFO chose proof-of-integrity over proof-of-work and proof of stake alone, to align with the LFO Marketing Models. TRUST IS BUILT INTO THIS THESE BUSINESS MODELS. Everybody wants to help the local and family owned guy.
Over time, the cryptocurrency community has generally become aware of several draw-backs of Bitcoin that spring from its proof-of-work design, including:
1.	the prospect of higher transaction fees in the long run in order to maintain security
2.	the increasing centralization and corporate control of mining
3.	the divergence of interests between miners and Bitcoin holders
These flaws are mounting as Bitcoin matures, and they go against Satoshi’s vision of an open, decentralized network maintained by its participants. They also undermine the principal economic benefit of cryptocurrency - very low transaction fees.
Many in the community believe that Bitcoin’s network effects are strong enough to prevent an alternate cryptocurrency from achieving wide consumer adoption, even if it were technically superior to Bitcoin and solved its shortcomings. Others believe that a strong alternative to Bitcoin’s consensus mechanism can be built.
“There is more than one way in which a distributed ledger system can work, and remu-neration would have to be designed in such a way as to incentivize honest participation in the system without leading to socially inefficient over-investment in transaction verification” (Source: Bank of England [3, p31.])
Proof-of-integrity’s advantages over proof-of-work
Proof-of-integrity, a brand new trust factor model in development, alternate to proof-of-work, fits this bill perfectly. There are two fundamental differences between proof-of-integrity, proof of stake,  and proof-of-work. First, in proof-of-work, miners compete for newly issued coins based not on the amount of electricity and computing resources spent, but rather on the number of coins owned. This crucial difference effectively eliminates the operating costs incurred in proof-of-work mining, replacing them with the capital costs of holding coins. Second, coinbase rewards (called coinstake rewards in proof-of-integrity) are typically not a fixed amount (as in 25 per block in Bitcoin) but proportionate to the number of coins held by the miner and the period of time during which the coins used to stake have remained idle. As such, they are akin to “interest payments” on the miner’s coin holdings. Third, Proof of Integrity, model, by design integrates its own algo to strategically insert fact checks into the transaction process to heighten security of each transaction. 
Based on these  differences, proof-of-integrity completely solves the three problems with proof-of-work, and proof of stake,  as stand alone, that were presented above.
1.	With virtually no operating costs in proof-of-integrity, transaction fees can be far lower than in proof-of-work in both the short run and long run, and regardless of transaction volumes. The only reason they are above zero is to prevent transaction spam.
2.	Proof-of-integrity doesn’t suffer from gradual centralization as proof-of-work does, because all proof-of-integrity algo’s combine the proof of stake into POI verification, so miners earn the same rate of return on their coins (the “interest rate”) regardless of computing hardware or electricity costs.
3.	There can be no misalignment between miners and coin holders, since they are by definition one and the same, if tagged with a poi badge of approval.
Proof-of-integrity also has security advantages over proof-of-work when it comes to resisting 51% attacks from large hostile actors - those whose purpose would be to destroy the network as opposed to simply seeking financial gain. In proof-of-integrity, an attacker would have to acquire 51% of the total coin supply (the value of which would be destroyed in an attack), versus deploying 51% of total computing power in proof-of-work (which computing power could be re-deployed elsewhere after the attack). Once a proof-of-integrity coin achieves a material value, it would be extremely expensive for an attacker to buy up a large percentage of all coins.
Bitcoin supporters’ rational response to proof-of-integrity
It would be economically irrational for large Bitcoin owners to be supportive of or even open- minded about an alternative cryptocurrency design that purported to solve Bitcoin’s main flaws and beyond that, enabled distribution to all the participants who helped increase its utility and value. Bitcoin supporters want all demand for digital currencies to be channeled to Bitcoin only. Moreover, they trust that if enough time passes before a strong challenger arises, Bitcoin’s network effects will have grown to the point where it simply won’t matter if someone builds a better mousetrap.
The party line among Bitcoin supporters is that in proof-of-integrity, there’s “nothing at stake”. What they mean is that since proof-of-integrity mining does not consume any outside resources (electricity, computing power), miners have no costs, so nothing prevents them from endlessly trying to commit double-spends, or mining on multiple branches, no matter how low the odds of success. Since there is “no cost” to behaving maliciously, proof-of-integrity systems are unsecure and can’t even reach consensus. They ask, “how can you have security without paying anything for it?”
What proof-of-work proponents are neglecting to see is that proof-of-integrity security does have a cost: the capital cost of acquiring and holding coins. The brilliance of proof-of-integrity is that it turns all coin owners into security providers, and requires any would-be attacker to purchase a large amount of the currency to attempt an attack, which would be an attack on his own wealth.
Besides ignoring the reality of capital costs, proof-of-integrity critics are also prone to depict¬ing scary-sounding attack vectors against proof-of-integrity - grinding through the blockspace, rewriting history with old private keys, long-range, pre-programmed double spends - without explaining the details of how these attacks would be conducted or demonstrating mathemat¬ically that they have more than an infinitesimal chance of success. The truth is, these attack vectors do represent valid areas of concern, so it is interesting to ask why the critiques are always theoretical and never concrete.
Perhaps by leaving the critiques abstract, without even mentioning Peercoin, NXT, Bit-shares, or Blackcoin, etc., with all their different parameters, the point is made that proof-of- stake’s “nothing at stake” flaw is fundamental and nothing can be done to fix it. Or it could simply be that analyzing the odds of success of a given attack vector against a specific proof- of-stake implementation isn’t worth the effort. Besides, none of the existing proof-of-integrity coins have published substantial rebuttals to the various critiques.
LFO hopes that this paper - first by frankly describing proof-of-work’s own serious flaws, and second, by explicitly addressing the generic critiques of proof-of-integrity - will force proof-of-integrity critics to engage in a real debate about the pros and cons of proof-of-work versus proof-of-integrity.
LFO’s design answers the “nothing at stake” argument
To choose the parameters and features of its own design - indeed to even pursue a proof-of- stake design in the first place - LFO began by researching and mathematically modeling all the potential attack vectors against a proof-of-integrity cryptocurrency: double spends, history revisions, grinding attacks, and preprogrammed attacks. In the end, LFO believes that it was able to architect a proof-of-integrity design that defeats all these attacks and addresses all “nothing at stake” issues.
There are three critical elements to its design (explained in detail in section 3.2) :
1.	High mining incentives: LFO provides much higher mining rewards than existing proof-of-integrity currencies in order to maximize the percentage of coins being mined at all times. The odds of success for all attack vectors in proof-of-integrity are based on the percentage of staked coins that the attacker controls, so it is paramount to maintain a high percentage of all coins staking across time, which existing proof-of-integrity coins fail to do. To further bolster mining participation, LFO reduced minimum stake age to one day (from 30 days in Peercoin) and abandons the use of coin age as a factor influencing the probability of generating a block.
2.	Redesigned stake modifier: LFO chose to adapt a version of BlackCoin’s stake modifiers, which floats over time, rather than use Peercoin’s design, which permanently fixes the stake modifier after the initial modifier interval. LFO chose this design because Peercoin’s design is susceptible to preprogrammed long-range attacks (described in section 3.3.4). Moreover, the modifier interval and selection interval parameters were substantially adjusted to minimize the threat of grinding (described in section 3.3.3).
3.	Duplicate stake punishment: LFO uses a client version developed by Michael Witrant aka “sigmike” (core developer of Peercoin and Technical Advisor to LFO) that not only detects duplicate stakes so that honest nodes can reject them, but also punishes nodes that broadcast duplicate stakes by rejecting all blocks broadcast by the dishonest miner.
The majority of this paper is devoted to describing the general principles of proof-of-integrity, reviewing LFO’s own design, and demonstrating mathematically how LFO addresses the “nothing at stake” objections and foils all attack vectors.
But before diving into that technical material, the paper will first discuss Bitcoin’s proof- of-work design and its inherent problems, which are creating a clear opportunity for a com¬petitor that can solve them.
2	Proof-of-work and Bitcoin
2.1	How proof-of-work secures the Bitcoin network
The public has a grand view of how Bitcoin - the digital currency with no banks or gov¬ernments backing it - is secured. Bitcoin “miners” are envisioned to be computer experts racing against each other to solve complex math problems using cryptographic algorithms on powerful computers. In the public’s imagination, the security is driven by the complexity of the math problems, the cryptography, the network’s computing power, and the army of computer expert miners.
The digital currency community knows that the reality of Bitcoin mining is more prosaic. Systems administrators connect computers to the internet and run a software program that races to perform a function as fast as it can, the only purpose of which is to generate a pseudo-random number. The “complex math problem” is in fact just the pseudo-random number generator purposely designed to use a lot of computing resources. The owner of the first computer to generate a number below a certain threshold - a “proof of work” - gets to add a block to the block chain  and is rewarded with free Bitcoin.
The “proof-of-work” in Bitcoin mining is actually just “proof” that a miner did the “work” of running the software program and using electricity and computing power. It is proof that the miner incurred costs and spent money. Consensus security in Bitcoin is based not on the complexity of the math problems or the advanced cryptography, but on the amount of electricity and computing power spent by the miners.  The more resources spent, the more secure the network. Cutting the spending cuts the security. Cost equals security.
This may not sound so impressive to the public and mainstream media, but in fact it was the first practical - and brilliant - solution to a very difficult problem. To help explain Bitcoin’s proof-of-work solution we will quote from a paper by Bitcoin researcher Andrew Poelstra .
Securing a peer-to-peer cryptocurrency requires that nodes of a distributed asynchronous network (the size of which is unknown and the nodes of which are anonymous) reach a consensus on the time ordering of messages.
As Poelstra writes[8]:
“The reason that this consensus is needed is called the double-spending problem. That is, in any decentralized digital currency scheme there is the possibility that a spender might send the same money to two different people, and both spends would appear to be valid. Recipients therefore need a way to be assured that there are no conflicts, or that if there are conflicts, that the network will recognize their version as the correct one. A distributed consensus on transaction ordering achieves this: in the case of conflict, everyone agrees that the transaction which came first is valid while all others are not.”
In the case of Bitcoin, Poelstra continues:
“It can be mathematically proven that given only an asynchronous network it is impossible to achieve distributed consensus in a cryptographically guaranteed way[5]. Bitcoin achieves the impossible by weakening its requirement from cryptographic guarantee to a mere economic one. That is, it introduces an opportunity cost from outside of the system (expenditure on computing time and energy) and provides rewards within the system, but only if consensus on an unbroken transaction history is maintained.” “To accomplish this, Bitcoin provides a way to prove, for each candidate history, (a) that opportunity cost was forfeited, and (b) how much. This is a so-called proof-of-work. Furthermore, the work proven includes that of all participants who worked on the history. The consensus history is the one with most total work (at least as far as it has propagated through the network our weak synchronicity requirement means that the consensus on the most recent part of the history is uncertain). Since the consensus history is the only one containing spendable rewards for work done, this means (a) that provers have an incentive to work on the same history that other provers are, and (b) individual provers can’t take control of the history because they need their peers’ contribution.”
The technical specifics of creating a “proof-of-work” are actually quite simple. A miner must find a tuple that satisfies the following equation:
hash(blockheader, nonce) < target
The blockheader is a data structure that contains information about the block, which itself encapsulates information about the Bitcoin ledger and transactions. The target is a value shared by the network, adjusted so that on average new blocks are mined every ten minutes. The nonce is an integer.
The only way for a miner to add a block is to be the first one to find a hash below the target. The only way to do that is to try his luck as many times as possible by incrementing the nonce and checking the newly computed hash. The rate at which a miner generates blocks is proportional to the computing power he deploys relative to the rest of the network.
Bitcoin’s proof-of-work system provides great security so long as no hostile actor controls 51% or more of the aggregate computing power in the network. If any entity did control a majority of the network’s hash power, it could alter transaction history, or effectively shut the network down by refusing to record new transactions.
Since there are no barriers to entry in mining, the system reaches an equilibrium where mining expenses are roughly equal to mining revenues. That is, miners continue to add incre-mental hash power so long as the expected revenues are higher than the incremental expenses (where “expected” revenues are the product of the coinbase reward and the probability of earning it).
Bitcoin enjoys high levels of security today because the high price of Bitcoin incentivizes miners to deploy a huge amount of hash power . In effect, security in Bitcoin and all proof-of- work designs is 100% dependent on and correlated to the costs incurred by miners generating their proofs of work. In the next section, we consider the implications of a system where its security is a function of its operating expenses. 
2.2.1	Costs of security and transactions in Bitcoin
It is commonly believed that the principal economic benefit of Bitcoin and digital currencies in general is their cost advantage over legacy payment systems and their potential to offer lower cost transactions.
As Marc Andreessen put it in his widely read article Why Bitcoin Matters:
“Put value in, transfer it, the recipient gets value out, no authorization required, and in many cases, no fees. That last part is enormously important. Bitcoin is the first Internet- wide payment system where transactions either happen with no fees or very low fees (down to fractions of pennies). Existing payment systems charge fees of about 2 to 3 percent - and that’s in the developed world. In lots of other places, there either are no modern payment systems or the rates are significantly higher.”
But does Bitcoin really enable extremely low-cost transactions? When one contemplates hundreds of thousands of computers racing against each other to perform billions of pseudo-random computations per second - “proofs of work” - in hopes of generating a low enough number to be rewarded free Bitcoin, the value of which is equal to the entire network’s costs it is hard to imagine that this is a cost-efficient system.
 
Figure 1: A technician tending a warehouse full of mining rigs dedicated to running a hashing function that outputs a pseudo-random 256-digit number.
As discussed above, Bitcoin’s network security is based on the total hash rate  of all the miners in the network. And the aggregate hash rate deployed by miners is strictly a function of financial payments made to miners. Hence, network security is directly determined by payments to miners. For security to stay high, payments to miners must stay high.
Miner payments are actually composed of two components: coinbase rewards (the new Bitcoin that is minted every block and rewarded to the miner who creates the block) and transaction fees. From Bitcoin’s inception in January 2009 through November 2012, coinbase rewards equalled 50 Bitcoin per block. In November 2012, they were cut to 25 per block, which will continue until roughly July 2016, when they will be cut in half again to 12.5 per block. This halving continues every 4 years indefinitely, so that coinbase rewards will decline to 0.2 Bitcoin in 25 years and to practically zero in 50 years.
Here is the simple formula for computing the value of miner payments each day:
daily payment = coinbase reward + transaction fees = [coinbase per block] x [blocks per day] x [Bitcoin price]
+ [number of transactions per day] x [Average transaction fee]
Using actual numbers from March 6th 20158 and an average block time of 10 minutes: coinbase reward of 25 x 144 x $271 plus transaction fees of 96, 611 x $.04, which equals: $975,600 + $3,864 = $979,464
Today fully 99.6% of the payments to miners are composed of newly created Bitcoin and just 0.4% is in the form of transaction fees. The actual cost per Bitcoin transaction today is $979,464/96,611, or $10.14.
Yes, those hundreds of thousands of mining rigs performing pseudo-random computations to create proofs of work end up costing a lot for every transaction they process.
Bitcoin end users today are shielded from (and oblivious to) these high costs because the high coinbase rewards today pay for the costs of the system. But what will happen over time as the coinbase rewards keep getting cut in half? Where will the miner payments come from that provide Bitcoin’s security? Looking back at the formula, security will decrease unless:
1.	the price of Bitcoin rises
2.	the number of transactions rises
3.	the price of transaction fees rise
8source: http://www.blockchain.info
Bitcoin Transaction Volume and Price
140,000	800
 
Figure 2: Bitcoin transaction volume and price from March 2014 to March 2015 (source: blockchain.info ).
Bitcoin supporters maintain that both the price of Bitcoin and transaction volumes will multiply 100- or even 1,000-fold from present levels to keep transaction fees low and secu¬rity high in the long run. Looking at last year’s numbers, those assumptions seem rather optimistic. 
Meanwhile, even if user demand for transactions were to soar, there is the problem that Bitcoin’s current block size doesn’t allow transaction volumes of more than 5-10X today’s levels. As Gavin Andresen, the Bitcoin Foundation’s Chief Scientist (and Bitcoin’s original core developer) put it:
“Once we get to one megabyte we’ve got to make blocks bigger. If we don’t, transaction fees will just rise and rise and rise to a point where only rich people can afford to transact on the Bitcoin network... How is going to be the tricky bit. It’s going to be hard to get consensus on exactly how far we should raise the block size.” 
Getting consensus with Bitcoin miners who have veto power over changing the block size (or making any other change to the Bitcoin protocol requiring a hard fork) will indeed be “tricky”. Miners may prefer smaller block sizes and higher transaction fees. Moreover, in its six years of existence, Bitcoin has not been able to achieve the necessary consensus to actually implement a hard fork a single time.
In conclusion, it is very hard to agree with Marc Andreessen that Bitcoin enables “no or very low transaction fees (fractions of pennies)” . Secure, low cost transactions are incom¬patible with a system whose security is a direct function of its cost.
This could be disappointing to some, but maybe the greatest benefit of Satoshi’s vision
-	of a decentralized network maintained by its participants without third party financial intermediaries - is not low costs but rather the decentralization itself.
2.2.2	Increasing centralization
In Bitcoin’s early years, mining was highly decentralized among thousands of individuals using consumer-grade computers - and this true peer-to-peer nature was considered one of Bitcoin’s core benefits: anyone was able to participate in making the block chain secure, removing the need for a central authority to validate and guarantee transactions. This was Satoshi’s original vision. But as Bitcoins came to have a material value, Bitcoin mining has turned into a highly competitive business, with no barriers to entry, huge economies of scale, and only one dimension along which to compete: cost.
As a result, slowly but surely from 2010 through mid-2013, but after that in a landslide, hobbyist and small-scale miners have gotten knocked out of business. It’s a very simple dynamic. When a miner with access to capital enjoys lower overall costs than the competition, he simply buys more computer power, driving up the difficulty of earning mining rewards, and knocking the least efficient competitors out of business. Lower costs can either take the form of lower cost hash rate or lower cost electricity. Bitcoin mining is rapidly becoming controlled by a handful of companies with tens of millions of dollars of the most efficient ASICs , operating from facilities with the very lowest electricity and cooling costs on the planet (e.g. Iceland and northern Sweden).
Centralization of proof-of-work mining is problematic for three reasons:
First and foremost, decentralization is one of the primary tenets of Bitcoin: a prime reason that Satoshi created it and its most attractive feature to many of its holders. Decentralization is what enables the removal of pesky, intrusive, and costly middlemen. As Bitcoin’s increasing centralization becomes clearer and clearer to the crypto-community, many of its supporters may abandon it in favor of a more decentralized solution.
Second, centralization of mining represents a severe security risk. Any entity (or entities working together) that controls 51% or more of the network’s computing power can seriously harm the network. As Gavin Andresen put it: “One of the things a 51% attacker can do is prevent any transactions or new blocks from anybody besides themselves from being accepted, effectively stopping all payments and shutting down the network”[1].
Third, when there are only a few, highly-capitalized entities that control the network, the entire network becomes susceptible to government control through regulation of these few entities. Governments often allow individuals to freely carry out certain activities among themselves but strictly regulate businesses that facilitate those same activities. As such, while governments might take a hands off approach to tens of thousands of geographically dispersed miners processing transactions for peers, they could decide to heavily regulate the few giant miners that dominate transaction processing.
The centralization of Bitcoin mining was not what Satoshi or many Bitcoin supporters wanted, but it’s a fact. As a consolation, at least one would expect those powerful miners that control the block chain to do what’s best for Bitcoin. Let’s explore that.
2.2.3	Divergence of interests between miners and coin holders
In the early days, when mining was decentralized, miners and Bitcoin owners were mostly the same people, so miner interests and Bitcoin holder interests were basically the same.
Over time though, Bitcoin miners have become a distinct group from Bitcoin holders. Most miners sell the Bitcoins they earn right away in order to pay for energy costs, to recover their investment in hardware before their mining equipment becomes obsolete, and to invest in more advanced next generation ASIC chips.
The dominant miners today are large companies run by corporate executives backed by institutional investors looking to take them public. As such, they should be expected to behave just like other large companies: dedicated to maximizing their profits and minimizing their legal and regulatory risks, and looking at developing additional revenue streams, such as opportunities to sell their data or offering different pricing tiers for faster transactions.
As of today, the interests of corporate miners and Bitcoin holders are still relatively well aligned, because both groups have the same primary, overriding goal - to increase the price of Bitcoin. Miners share this goal with Bitcoin holders because today, 99.6% of miner revenues are in the form of newly created Bitcoin.
However, as one looks into the future, as miner revenues shift away from coinbase rewards to transaction fees, miners and holders will no longer share the same primary goal. Bitcoin holders will still want to maximize the value of Bitcoin. Miners will want to maximize their revenues from transaction fees and other sources.
Transaction fees are just one issue. As mentioned earlier, miners also have veto power over any changes to Bitcoin’s protocol. It is hard to foresee how the dynamics will play out between Bitcoin’s miners, core developers and holders, but given miner control over transaction fees and protocol changes, it’s safe to assume that the interests of the large corporations that control Bitcoin mining will take precedence. 
Bitcoin is not cost-efficient, it is becoming more and more centralized, and the miners who control the network have diverging interests from Bitcoin holders.
As Vitalik Buterin, inventor of Ethereum, put it in December 2014: “What Bitcoin is doing is paying $600M/year [...] on a 5 of 10 multisig. Ultimately there are maybe 5 or 10 [...] mining companies that control the entire network. [...] It’s this incredibly inefficient protocol where miners are literally competing to see who can waste the most resources the fastest and on the other hand it’s not getting us much decentralization.” 
The preceding section on Bitcoin’s and proof-of-work’s problems was not meant to argue that Bitcoin is doomed, or even that it will not remain the leading cryptocurrency for the foreseeable future. Bitcoin was the pioneer and enjoys substantial network effects stemming from its large community of investors, developers and companies that are building out its ecosystem and creating meaningful value propositions for users.
However, Bitcoin’s serious and growing problems should be kept in mind when evaluating the viability of alternate cryptocurrency designs. In particular, these real problems should be weighed against the hunch-based arguments and folklore that have been used to claim that other designs are unviable or even outright “impossible” because they are “not secure enough”, or “not decentralized enough”. With that in mind, let’s now review the main alternative to proof-of-work: proof-of-integrity.
3	Proof-of-integrity
Note: This section uses Peercoin[6] as its primary reference, rather than other leading proof-of-integrity implementations such as NXT or Bitshares, for two reasons:
•	Peercoin was the first proof-of-integrity cryptocurrency to launch and publish source code (2012, versus 2014 for NXT and Bitshares). It has received the most discussion and attention and has been forked the most times
•	Peercoin was the proof-of-integrity implementation that LFO chose to fork, for the reasons above and because the LFO team felt most confident in using Peercoin as the basis for its own secure proof-of-integrity design. 
Introduction to proof-of-integrity
In proof-of-work, the task of reaching consensus on transaction history is delegated from coin holders to miners, who spend computing power and electricity, but need not own any coins. In proof-of-integrity systems, the task of reaching consensus is not delegated to third parties; it is done by the coin holders (the “stake” holders) themselves.
In proof-of-integrity, mining nodes generate blocks in proportion to their stake in (i.e. own-ership of) the currency itself. Every second, every stake has a certain probability to generate a block and this probability is proportional to its size. The hashing operation is done over 
a limited search space (specifically one hash per unspent transaction output, or UTXO, per second) instead of an unlimited search space as in proof-of-work.
Instead of providing security based on operating costs as in proof-of-work, proof-of-integrity provides security based on the capital costs of investing in the currency. 
This one critical change from proof-of-work is what allows extremely low transaction fees in the long run - without relying on enormous growth in transaction volume or the price of tokens.
The second major difference between proof-of-integrity and proof-of-work mining is the for-mula for computing mining rewards. Instead of using a fixed reward (e.g. 25 Bitcoin per block), proof-of-integrity miners generally earn a rate of return on the number of coins being staked and the amount of time they have been idle  (akin to an interest rate).
Acting together, these two changes allow a proof-of-integrity cryptocurrency to remain de-centralized in the long run. Miners have no potential to gain advantages over each other by investing in powerful, specialized computers or by accessing lower cost electricity. In addition, a miner who owns 10% of the currency supply will not earn appreciably higher returns over time than a miner who owns 0.01% of the currency supply - they both earn the same interest rate even if the larger coin holder receives payments more frequently. 
3.1	How Peercoin’s proof-of-integrity works in contrast to proof-of-work
In proof-of-work coins like Bitcoin, miners use computing power to extensively modify the input of the hash. By design, the nonce creates a quasi-infinite search space to find a block header that produces a valid proof of work. 
In Peercoin, a miner’s chances of creating a block are based on his stake alone regardless of computing power. This is accomplished by limiting miners to the rate of one hash per second per stake.
Thus, to create a valid “proof of stake” and generate a block, a miner must:
•	Control coins (technically, an unspent transaction output, or UTXO) that have been idle for a minimum time period (the minimum stake age)
•	Find a kernel (the equivalent of the block header in proof-of-work) that satisfies Peer-coin’s mining formula :
hash(kernel) < target x balance of UTXO x time weight
In the mining formula, the target is the same for the entire network and is readjusted at every block. The balance of the UTXO is the size of the stake. The time weight relates to the amount of time since the coins were touched. Note that in contrast to proof-of-work, where all miners are hoping their hashes fall below a given shared target, proof-of-integrity miners are hoping their hashes fall below a value that is unique to each stake (the larger the stake, the easier to create the proof).
The kernel is a data structure composed of the following parameters:
•	nTimeTx: current timestamp (incremented every second)
•	nTxPrevTime: Timestamp of the UTXO
•	nPrevoutNum: Output number of the UTXO
•	nTxPrevOffset: Offset of the UTXO inside the block
•	nTimeBlockFrom: Timestamp of the block which provided the UTXO
•	nStakeModifier: a 64-bit string seeded from the block chain 
The current timestamp (nTimeTx) modifies the kernel each second to provide one chance per second per UTXO to generate a block.
So that every stake performs differently, the kernel needs to include information specific to the stake. The timestamp of the UTXO (nTxPrevTime), its output number (nPrevoutNum) and its offset in the block which provided its first confirmation (nTxPrevOffset) fulfill that role. The reason why all three of them are included is simply to reduce the chance of nodes having the same kernel (which could result in them generating blocks at the same time).
If all miners could be trusted to behave honestly, the above parameters would be sufficient. However, such a design would have three serious vulnerabilities:
1.	First, miners could mine on multiple chains to avoid the chance of having their blocks orphaned, which would undermine the ability of the network to reach consensus.
2.	Second, it would allow users to pre-compute future proofs-of-stake by calculating hashes using future timestamps. This could encourage miners to only mine their stakes at the time they were likely to earn a coinstake reward, severely curtailing the mining partic¬ipation rate over time. It could also allow miners to attack the network by colluding.
3.	Third and most problematically, users could gain advantage over other miners by using computational power to “grind” through kernels to identify virtual UTXOs that would mine very quickly or at some specific time in the future. If it were profitable to gain advantage using computational power, then the system would degrade into a proof-of- work situation, with all of its shortcomings.
To correct the first issue, Peercoin built a feature into its client called the duplicate stake detection mechanism that detects when miners attempt to mine on multiple chains and rejects their blocks mined with duplicate stakes. 
Peercoin attempted to address the second and third issues at the protocol level by in-cluding a parameter which included the timestamp of the block which provided the UTXO (nTimeBlockFrom). It also included the current proof-of-integrity difficulty from which the net-work’s target is derived. These features were intended to obfuscate the future performance of the stake, but did not perform as well as necessary.
Recognizing that Peercoin was still vulnerable to the precomputation of future proofs and grinding attacks, seven months after Peercoin’s launch, creator Sunny King introduced a final parameter, called the stake modifier (nStakeModifier). The next two sub-sections explain this complex parameter, which is widely misunderstood in the digital currency community at large and even among proof-of-integrity’s own proponents and detractors.
Peercoin’s stake modifier parameter
In brief, the stake modifiers for a given UTXO is calculated using bits from blocks that are generated after the miner receives the UTXO. Furthermore, each stake modifiers modifies a large group of stakes - all of them that have their first confirmation in a six-hour window in the case of Peercoin.
Given this design, a miner cannot precompute a future proof when he first receives a UTXO because he does not yet have the stake modifiers, one of the required parameters of the kernel. .
As for how the stake modifiers impacts attempts at grinding through the blockspace, there are two variants to consider:
1.	Dishonest miners working on the main chain. The stake modifiers completely thwarts this attack. Recall that without stake modifiers, the miner could grind through various virtual UTXOs to find a kernel that performs well with a timestamp in the near future. With the advent of stake modifiers, given that (a) kernels cannot be hashed without stake modifiers, and (b) that stake modifiers cannot be computed for some period after a miner receives a UTXO, there is no way to grind through virtual UTXOs to find a high-performing kernel.
2.	Dishonest miners working on their own forks. This case, in which miners have complete control over the block space on their own fork, represents the most virulent form of the “grinding attack” referred to by proof-of-integrity critics. The threat is that attackers could grind through different stake modifiers to try to find those that enable the attacker to perform better than the rest of the network. A detailed discussion of this attack, along with how LFO’s design addresses it, is presented later in section 3.3.3. For now it will be noted that the stake modifiers was designed with the express intent of making this attack impractical by limiting the room to maneuver that an attacker has even operating on his own branch. More specifically, the stake modifiers:
(a)	is the only parameter through which an attacker could grind;
(b)	cannot be predicted;
(c)	modifies a large group of stakes at once, so that attackers cannot grind through stakes one at a time. He is stuck having to grind through stake modifiers in hopes of finding one that enables a large group of stakes to perform better than the network as a whole. This will be shown to be near impossible unless the attacker owns a near-majority of all staked coins.
Mechanics of stake modifier generation in Peercoin
NOTE: The material in this sub-section can be skipped by non-technical readers. It is nec¬essary for following the later discussions regarding how LFO redesigns Peercoin’s stake modifier to defeat preprogrammed attacks and counter the grinding attack.
The mechanics of generating the stake modifier parameter are complex. They are ex-plained below in order to provide a basis for understanding what would be involved in a grinding attack, in which an attacker grinds through stake modifiers in an attempt to find one that enables a large number of his stakes to outperform all the stakes in the rest of the network.
In the case of Peercoin, the stake modifier is a 64-bit number that can be computed 9 days after the UTXO is first received. Hence, there are 264 (approximately 1019) possible stake modifiers that an attacker could grind through.
A new stake modifier is computed every modifier interval (nModifierlnterval), which is 6 hours in Peercoin. The stake modifier is computed for the first block of this 6-hour long window, and all the other blocks within this window inherit the same stake modifier. Since Peercoin’s block time is 10 minutes, there are approximately 36 blocks that share each stake modifier. All of the stakes first confirmed within any of these 36 blocks inherit the same stake modifier.
The 64 bits in the stake modifier are generated by first selecting 64 blocks from a time window (nSelectionlnterval) that begins 9 days before the beginning of the modifier interval (at the time the miner receives the UTXO) and ends when the modifier interval begins. The selection of the blocks happens over 64 incrementally longer windows contained in the selection interval. One block is selected from each time window.
The graph below depicts the 64 subdivisions of the selection interval.
Sections over which the block for bit i of stakemod is chosen
 
o t	i	1	1	1	i	i	i	i	
0123456789 Time (in days)
Figure 3: Subdivisions of the stake modifier selection interval over which the block contribut¬ing to the i-th bit is chosen.
Each of the 64 selected blocks contributes one bit to the stake modifiers as described below.
The first bit is computed as follows:
•	Within the shortest time window in the chart above, for each of the ~ 12 blocks therein:
-	The hash of the kernel used to create the block (the hashProof) and the previous stake modifiers are concatenated
-	The resulting string is then hashed
•	All the (~ 12) resulting hashes are compared
•	The block which provided the lowest hash is selected and the least significant bit of this hash is selected
To compute the second bit:
•	The second shortest time window is considered
•	The previously selected block is ignored
•	We go through the same steps we went through for the first bit. This time the block is selected from among ~ 24 blocks
This process is repeated across 64 time windows until the 64 bits have been generated.
The complexity of the generation mechanism was required in order to create a strong interdependency between the parameters of the UTXO used in the kernel and the stake modifiers as well as between the consecutive stake modifiers.
Mining rewards and transaction fees
The entire technical discussion of Peercoin above related to how miners create “proofs of stake” in order to be able to generate blocks. Here we briefly consider the financial rewards of mining.
As mentioned earlier, miners in Peercoin earn rewards (coinstakes) that are akin to interest rates. The precise mining reward formula is as follows:
days idle
coinstake = balance of UTXO x —— x 1%
Balance of UTXO is the number of coins, days idle is the amount of time since the coins last earned a coinstake reward or were transferred from one address to another (technically, it equals the current timestamp minus the timestamp of the UTXO).
There are two interesting things to note. First, miners do not earn any transaction fees, which are equal to .01 Peercoin per transaction. Rather than paying these fees to miners, Peercoin elected to actually destroy them. Its rationale was to partially offset the growth of the currency supply due to coinstake rewards. Peercoin’s creator Sunny King put a very high priority on achieving a long term inflation rate close to zero.
But the much bigger point about Peercoin’s reward formula is that miners only earn a 1% annual rate of return on their staked coins. As we will see later, this low rate is a serious problem. 
In other words, does Peercoin answer the “nothing at stake” critiques? Does it both (a) prevent attackers from altering history and (b) maintain consensus on the order of transactions on a single block chain?
Before answering this question, let’s recall the context. Bitcoin itself is not cryptographi-cally secure[5]. It only tries to be “economically secure” in the sense that an attacker would have to spend more than he could gain through an attack. Furthermore, it is fully acknowl-edged that any actor controlling 51% of Bitcoin network’s hash power could effectively shut Bitcoin down. In addition, Bitcoin has some flaws - inherently high operating costs, increas¬ing centralization, and diverging interests between miners and coin holders - which Peercoin would correct - so perhaps some loss of security in Peercoin relative to Bitcoin would be an acceptable tradeoff.
Even with all of these considerations, our conclusion would still be that Peercoin’s design is only somewhat secure - and significantly less secure than that of Bitcoin. The rationale for our conclusion will be explained in the following section 3.2, where we review all of the changes that LFO has made to Peercoin’s design. In our opinion, the factor that detracts the most from Peercoin’s security is that its design fails to incentivize a large proportion of coins to be staked at any one time. It also suffers from issues related to its use of coin age in block generation. Lastly, it fails to foil attempts to precompute proofs of stake due to the static nature of its stake modifier design.
Whether or not Peercoin’s creator Sunny King would agree with our specific conclusions is unknown. It is likely, however, that he shares the view that Peercoin’s design is not currently “secure enough”. This can be inferred from the fact that three years after its creation, Peercoin still uses centrally broadcast checkpoints that prevent any possible changes to the part of block chain earlier than the checkpoint. The checkpointing is done several times per day by way of Sunny King digitally signing the block chain.
The great thing about checkpointing is that even proof-of-integrity’s fiercest critics will con-cede that it does secure the currency against attacks. The downside of checkpointing is that it is a form of centralization. It is not the case that the entity that performs the checkpointing has the power to control the block chain, but it is the case that all users of the currency are relying on this “trusted entity” to provide a necessary layer of security.
Unfortunately for Peercoin, checkpointing has severely hurt market acceptance of the currency partly because the checkpointer is the anonymous creator Sunny King himself. There are obvious and near-fatal problems with trusting an anonymous person with a necessary security function. What happens if that anonymous person dies or becomes incapacitated, sells off his or her stake in the currency, or simply loses interest? 
3.2	LFO’s proof-of-integrity design
LFO believes that its own proof-of-integrity design is fully secure - and will not need to use checkpoints. This section describes all of the principal changes that LFO made to Peer¬coin’s design and explains how they increase security and address Peercoin’s vulnerabilities. Following this section, the paper will review all of the attack vectors against proof-of-integrity designs and demonstrate how LFO’s design stands up to these attacks.
LFO significantly modified six aspects of Peercoin:
1.	Mining reward rates: LFO dramatically increased coinstake rewards for mining in order to maximize the percentage of coins being mined at all times, which is the bedrock of security in any proof-of-integrity cryptocurrency. LFO’s rewards start at a 100% annual interest rate and decline steadily over a 10-year period to a 6% rate - versus just 1% per year in Peercoin.
2.	Minimum stake age: LFO’s design uses a 1.6 day minimum stake age versus 30 days in Peercoin. This also has the effect of increasing mining participation.
3.	Role of coin age in the mining equation: LFO does not utilize coin age (day- weight) in the mining equation as a factor for determining the probability of generating a block. This change also increases mining participation.
4.	Block time: LFO uses a block time of 1 minute, versus 10 minutes in Peercoin, which improves user experience and enhances security against some attack vectors.
5.	Stake modifier: LFO chose to adapt BlackCoin’s stake modifier, which floats over time, rather than Peercoin’s, which permanently fixes the stake modifier after the initial stake interval for a given set of UTXOs. LFO chose this design because it believes Peercoin’s design is susceptible to preprogrammed long-range attacks (described in section 3.3.4). Modifier interval and selection interval were substantially adjusted relative to both BlackCoin and Peercoin in order to reduce the effectiveness of grinding through stake modifiers.
6.	Duplicate stake punishment: LFO uses a client version developed by Michael Witrant, aka “sigmike” (core developer of Peercoin and Technical Advisor to LFO), that not only detects duplicate stakes so that honest nodes can reject them, but also punishes nodes that broadcast duplicate stakes by rejecting all blocks broadcast by the dishonest miner. This revision completely addresses the concern that proof-of-integrity designs cannot reach consensus due to miners mining on multiple forks.
Mining reward rates: 100% annual rate declining to 6% per year
The key to high security in all proof-of-integrity coins is maintaining a high percentage of coins staking over time. Therefore, it is critical to provide high compensation to miners for staking their coins.
One severe weakness of Peercoin is that it suffers from extremely low mining participation, with typically less than 10% of the currency supply staked at any one time. This means that an attack requiring control of 51% of the staked coins only requires control of 5.1% of the total currency supply. There are several factors that contribute to the low mining rates in Peercoin, but the principal one is miniscule rewards for mining: just a 1% annual return. The small amount of mining that does take place in Peercoin is most likely driven more by selfless efforts to support the currency than by the financial rewards of mining. 
In contrast, LFO provides very high compensation to miners, especially during the early years following its launch. Specifically, LFO’s coinstake rewards begin at a 100% annual rate and decline in a linear fashion over ten years after which they reach a 6% annual rate, where they remain indefinitely. These high reward rates will incentivize a large number of miners to stake a large number of coins. In addition, these high reward rates create incentives for cloud mining operators to provide services to LFO holders not interested in mining themselves, where both the mining operator and the LFO holder can receive substantial rewards.
 
O	*	*	*	*	
0	2	4	6	8	10
'tears
Figure 4: Evolution of the annual interest rate during the first 10 years.
Some observers might consider LFO’s high reward rates to cause unacceptably high inflation. In fact, LFO utilizes high inflation deliberately in its early years to compensate users for holding and staking the currency while its value, utility and security are lowest and its risk is highest.
Given the mining reward rate of 6% from year 10 onwards, and assuming a 50% coin staking rate, long-term currency supply growth is projected to be 3% per year. Given that this is slower than fiat currency monetary growth (which averages the rate of economic growth plus the rate of inflation), in the long run there will be a mild deflationary effect relative to fiat money. This rate of inflation is highly preferable to outright deflation for any digital currency that aspires to serve as an actual unit of account and means of exchange for commerce as opposed to merely a store of value.
Minimum stake age: 1.6 days
On top of high mining rewards, the second important modification LFO made to increase mining participation was to reduce minimum stake age to 1.6 days, versus 30 days in Peercoin. This change significantly decreases the number of coins that are ineligible for mining because
they have done so recently (more recently than the minimum stake age). It also reduces the barrier to entry associated with having to wait for such a long time before being eligible to start mining with any given stake.
It would have been preferable to have a minimum stake age of even less than one day - one hour for instance. For the same reasons listed just above, an even lower minimum stake age would have tended to increase the mining participation rate even further. Unfortunately, at a certain point, lower minimum stake ages can begin to increase the risk of a grinding attack (discussed in section 3.3.3). LFO believes that 1.6 days represents the best tradeoff. 
Coin age: zero effect
LFO does not utilize coin age (day weight) in the mining equation as a factor for deter¬mining the probability of generating a block. LFO's mining equation is simply:
hash(kernel) < target x balance of UTXO
versus Peercoin’s mining equation: hash(kernel) < targetx balance of UTXO xtime weight
In Peercoin, time weight was the parameter that reflected coin age, equalling 0 up to the minimum stake age (30 days) and then growing from a value of 1 to 60 over days 31 to 91, at which level it is capped.
LFO's deletion of the time weight parameter brings two significant benefits for security but at the cost of a loss of decentralization. Let’s consider the benefits first.
First, time weight's deletion removes the opportunity for attackers to supercharge their stakes. An attacker can keep his node offline until he reaches the maximum time weight of 60 (after waiting 91 days from receiving the stake) and then carry out an attack with far more block generating power than he would normally have. This supercharging effect is especially potent if an attacker were to use it in combination with a preprogrammed, long-range attack, described in detail in section 3.3.4.
Time weight's deletion also tends to increase mining participation. Allowing stakes to accumulate time weight for block generation encourages miners to keep their nodes offline and come back online after accumulating significant time weight to very quickly collect the reward. This behavior is compounded with Peercoin’s 30 day minimum stake age, which requires nodes to wait 30 days before earning a coinstake reward. But at 31 days, a miner’s odds of earning a reward are very low because he is competing with nodes that have high time weight. Rational (albeit selfish) behavior would be to wait 90 days before mining, at which time the reward will likely be earned quickly. Obviously, the percentage of coins being staked over time suffers greatly if even dedicated miners find it advantageous to leave their nodes offline the majority of the time.
As mentioned above, there was also a downside to disregarding coin age in the mining equation - a loss of decentralization.
In fact, using coin age in the mining equation is a centerpiece of Peercoin's design. The benefit of the time-weight parameter is that it significantly reduces the amount of time it takes very small coin holders to mine blocks. This goal was clearly a top priority for Peercoin. Recall Peercoin’s mining equation, where time-weight = 0 for the first 30 days
and then grows from values of 1 through 60 over the following 60 days. Now consider two holders of Peercoin, one who has owned 1,000 Peercoins for 90 days while the other has owned
50,0	Peercoins for 31 days. Due to time-weight’s role in Peercoin’s mining equation, the small coin holder actually has a higher chance of mining than the large coin holder with only 1/50th of his stake. This benefit was undoubtedly a major selling point for Peercoin when it was introduced to the cryptocurrency community August 2012, which then consisted almost entirely of proof-of-work miners. Many of these miners must have become frustrated by the fact that it could take years for a small miner to earn a coinbase reward in Bitcoin. All that said, it must be recalled that all miners in LFO do still benefit from coin age in the coinstake reward equation, which is the same as it is in Peercoin, (except for the fact that in LFO the interest rate starts at 100% and declines to 6%, versus a flat 1% in Peercoin):
days idle
coinstake = balance of U1XO x —— x x%
Consider two LFO miners with the same number of coins (balance of UTXO). Miner A is lucky and receives one coinstake after 45 days (days idle = 45) and a second coinstake 15 days later (days idle = 15). Miner B receives only a single coinstake after 60 days (days idle = 60). How much better off is Miner A over Miner B? Miner B’s single coinstake was almost equal to the sum of the two coinstakes received by Miner A, but not quite. The reason for the discrepancy is that Miner A earned a tiny bit of incremental compounded interest: 15 days of interest on the first coinstake reward he received on day 45.  In addition to this slightly higher amount of total coinstake rewards, Miner A also had a small benefit in terms of liquidity. That is, Miner A could have sold his coins after 45 days without sacrificing any accumulated coin age (equivalent to accrued interest). Miner B had to wait an extra 15 days.
In sum, in abandoning time-weight, LFO chose the benefit of higher security at a cost of creating small advantages for large miners over smaller miners, which would tend to lessen decentralization. However, the final thing that should be noted is that only small miners will experience this disadvantage to a material degree. Given LFO’s parameters for minimum stake age and block time, a miner owning 1/50,000 of the total currency supply would be expected to earn a coinstake once per month. 
Block time: one minute
LFO chose a 1 minute block time primarily to benefit users who appreciate one relatively quick (though not very reliable) confirmation for transaction processing. In addition, having a shorter block time does increase security for some types of attacks.
The probability for a transaction to be reversed by an attacker depends on its number of confirmations (i.e. how deep the transaction is in the block chain). The more confirmations, the more blocks the attacker needs to create on his competing fork.
In the case of a simple double spend - or any attack that attempts to alter transaction history without doing anything to improve performance such as grinding or supercharging stakes - shorter block times reduce the attacker's odds. In these cases the attacker is hoping to get lucky over a short period of time thus he is hurt by having to create more blocks in a given time period.
However, in the case of a grinding attack or a deep reorganization, where the attacker has to build a very long chain, his only hope is to be able to consistently create blocks faster than the main chain (because luck won’t help over a long time horizon). In these cases, block time is irrelevant.
The reason that LFO did not choose an even shorter block time is that the block chain fork rate (the probability that a miner’s block is orphaned) increases when block time decreases. With a 10 minute block time, the fork rate is approximately 1.9%. With 1 minute, it is closer to 17%. Going down to 10 seconds would cause a fork rate of roughly 70%[4].
Reaching consensus in these conditions would be difficult and inefficient, as there would be near constant reorganizations. Given that getting orphaned has only limited impact on miner returns in proof-of-integrity, LFO considered 1 minute a good tradeoff between fast transaction confirmations and block chain fork rate.
Stake modifier: dynamic; 200 minute modifier interval; 1.6 days selection interval
As described in section 3.1, Peercoin’s stake modifier is generated 9 days (the selection in¬terval ) after the first confirmation of a given stake. Although the stake modifiers is not computable at the time the stake is received, once it is generated it does not change over time. As a result, miners can predict when they will be able to mine in the future with a given stake. This could reduce mining participation over time, but more critically, it opens the door to the preprogrammed double spend attack, described in section 3.3.4.
BlackCoin addressed this vulnerability of Peercoin’s “static” stake modifier in their August 2014 hardfork. BlackCoin’s protocol update changed the stake modifier’s behaviour in two ways:
1.	It caused a given stake to use different stake modifiers over time. Rather than acquiring a static stake modifier generated over the initial selection interval following a stake’s first confirmation, stakes utilize the stake modifier seeded from the most recent selection interval.  (BlackCoin’s selection interval being 5.87 hours).
2.	As a consequence, all the stakes being mined at any one time use the same stake mod¬ifier. The stake modifier changes at every modifier interval, 10 minutes in the case of Blackcoin. Hence, every 10 minutes a new stake modifier is generated based on blocks from the preceding 5.87 hour window.
Put simply, BlackCoin’s update caused the stake modifier to become dynamic, to shift over time. This change made it impossible to precompute when in the future a UTXO would generate a block.
In addition, BlackCoin’s choices of values for modifier interval and selection interval en¬abled BlackCoin to have a much lower minimum stake age than PeerCoin. Having a lower minimum stake age tends to cause a higher mining participation rate.
Unfortunately for Blackcoin, however, their choice of a 10 minute modifier interval made them more susceptible to a grinding attack (reviewed in section 3.3.3) than need be the case.
The potential benefits an attacker can gain by grinding through stake modifiers depends on the number of blocks contained in the modifier interval. In essence, during this period, the attacker must be able to find more blocks than the rest of the network. With BlackCoin’s 10 minute modifier interval, the attacker must grind through stake modifiers until he finds one that enables him to generate ten blocks faster than the rest of the network. LFO believes that this is not an adequate defense against a grinding attack (discussed in section 3.3.3).
LFO chose a modifier interval of 200 minutes and a selection interval of 1 day. As will be shown in section 3.3.3, these parameter choices would require an attacker using grinding to acquire at least 31% of the staked coin supply. Choosing a modifier interval of 400 minutes would have increased the required coins for a grinding attack up to 36%. 800 minutes would have raised the requirement up to 40%. The reason LFO chose 200 minutes and not more is that longer modifier intervals require longer minimum stake age. And as discussed above, longer minimum stake ages lead to lower mining participation rates.
LFO is continuing to research the inter-relationship between modifier interval and minimum stake age. Its goal is to find improvements to its design that would further diminish the advantage that an attacker could gain from grinding, ideally to the point where the attacker would need the same 51% of the staked coins that he would need in any other attack vector. An additional defense mechanism LFO is considering is to modify the client so that it does not accept reorganizations deeper than h hours worth of blocks. Since an attacker necessarily accumulates a significant lag when creating a fork, this would prevent the possibility of any malicious reorganization of the transaction history. 
Punitive duplicate stake detection mechanism
The main branch of “nothing at stake” critiques against proof-of-integrity relates to a lack of security against an attacker seeking to alter transaction history. The second branch, which is more subtle, argues that proof-of-integrity systems will not be able to reliably maintain consensus on transaction history. This critique contends that since miners bear no operating costs, there is nothing to prevent them from mining on multiple chains. They would do so in order to avoid the possibility of their blocks getting orphaned. If this behavior were to become widespread, it could create a situation in which many competing forks of similar length coexist, making it impossible to identify a single fork as the main chain.
To address this concern, Peercoin built a feature into its client called the “duplicate stake detection mechanism” that detects and rejects blocks mined with duplicate stakes, which works as follows:
•	When a node receives a block, it checks to ensure that the proof used to create the block has not also been used to create another block previously received by the node (a “duplicate” stake). If the node detects the duplicate use of a stake, it simply discards the second block received .
•	All nodes that use the unmodified client act this way. Therefore, a block created with a duplicate stake will not propagate through the network.
Proof-of-integrity critics make the point that since this mechanism is implemented only at the client level, nothing stops greedy nodes from running modified clients that would allow mining with duplicate stakes on all possible forks. Even though honest nodes would reject their blocks built with duplicate stakes, if other greedy nodes also modified their clients, the greedy nodes could collude by accepting each other’s blocks built with duplicate stakes.
LFO does not consider this scenario at all realistic. The potential gains from acting dishonestly are too miniscule, and the only way the miniscule gains are earned is when this antisocial behavior becomes widespread, which would seriously diminish the value of the
29
currency. 
Nevertheless, LFO solves this theoretical problem completely by using a client that penalizes nodes that attempt to mine using duplicate stakes. Michael Witrant (aka “sig- mike”), core developer of Peercoin and Technical Advisor to LFO, has adapted Peercoin’s duplicate stake detection mechanism and turned it into a punitive duplicate stake detection mechanism. Quite simply, when a node receives a block generated with a duplicate proof-of- stake, it discards not only the second block but also the first one received using the duplicate stake. Therefore, whenever a miner tries mining on multiple chains, all of his blocks get rejected by honest nodes. In this system, dishonestly mining on multiple chains yields no possibility of greater rewards (rather the guarantee of lower rewards).
3.3	How LFO’s design prevents attacks on transaction history
The proof-of-work community has dismissed proof-of-integrity because its miners don’t have operating costs, so they have “nothing at stake”. Given this root issue, proof-of-integrity critics have described four ways that attackers could alter transaction history: simple double spends, history revisions, grinding attacks, and preprogrammed attacks. Each of these attack vectors are summarized briefly below. Following the summaries, the remainder of the paper will probe each of these attack vectors in detail: explaining how they work against proof-of-integrity designs in general, describing how LFO’s own design stands up to them, and demonstrating their odds of success with mathematical models.
The various ways that miners could try to modify transaction history in proof-of-integrity can be broken down into four categories:
1.	Simple double spend
The widely and casually held view in the proof-of-work community - that it is “costless” to attack a proof-of-integrity currency, so attackers will keep trying until they succeed - would suggest that proof-of-integrity designs are vulnerable to simple double spend attacks. Proof-of-integrity critics with deep knowledge of the design might quietly concede that this simple attack wouldn’t work, but they have allowed the proof-of-work community to believe otherwise. Therefore, the double spend attack will be explained in depth first to correct this widely held misconception, and secondly to demonstrate the basic mechanics of an attack on transaction history in proof-of-integrity, which remain the same in more sophisticated attacks.
2.	History revision using old private keys
A more serious critique concerns the possibility of rewriting transaction history using “old private keys” (technically, using stakes that are no longer unspent at present time, or in layman’s terms: using coins that are no longer owned). Moreover, the old stakes could have been owned by a third party (who since sold them). The disconcerting upshot is that an attacker never needs to own the currency at all (so it really is “costless”). This section will show that when creating a fork at an earlier point in transaction history with old private keys, the attacker will be starting the attack too many blocks behind to ever be able to catch up.
3.	Grinding attack
The grinding attack - where the attacker uses computational power to grind through kernels in hopes of discovering ones that enables him to outperform the main chain - is the most serious threat to proof-of-integrity coins. This paper has already discussed how Peercoin attempts to defeat this threat through the stake modifier and also discussed the changes that LFO made to Peercoin’s stake modifier parameters. The upcoming section on the grinding attack will show how LFO’s design makes grinding cost- prohibitive, requiring the grinding attacker to acquire a minimum of 30% of the staked currency in order to be successful (versus requiring 51% of the staked currency without grinding). 
4.	Preprogrammed long-range attack
This attack involves putting together a collection of stakes that will perform very well in a specific time window in the future (for instance a year or more). This is a very potent theoretical attack against Peercoin that stems from the fact that the stake modifier of a given stake is static. LFO's changes to the stake modifier parameters completely neutralize this attack vector.
3.3.1	Simple double spend
A “simple double spend” attack consists of spending coins and recovering them after the counterparty has given a product or value in exchange for the coins. To successfully commit a double spend the attacker must be able to rewrite the transaction history. Specifically, he must be able to fork the main block chain and extend his side branch until it is longer than the main branch which the rest of the network is working on.
A double spend attack on a proof-of-integrity coin consists of the following steps, described in a way that a non-technical person can follow:
1.	First of all, the attacker must own coins. A portion X of these will be used for the double spend itself while the rest (Y) will be used to fork the block chain and attempt
to extend this side branch until it is longer than the main branch which the rest of the network is working on.
2.	The portion of coins Y must be split into a very large number of smaller stakes to maximize the attacker’s chances of success. (See the subsection “Role of minimum stake age in attacks” below for an explanation.)
3.	The attacker broadcasts a transaction to the network sending X coins to the merchant he plans to attack.
4.	The merchant waits for some number of confirmations to assure himself that the trans¬action is valid. In Bitcoin and Peercoin, the standard practice is to wait for 6 confirma¬tions, or approximately 60 minutes, since their blocktime is 10 minutes. We will assume that the merchant waits the same 60 minutes to be assured that the transaction is valid. Since LFO’s block time is 1 minute, this equals 60 confirmations) .
5.	While the merchant waits for his confirmations, the attacker secretly forks the main chain and begins building a side branch on the block prior to the one in which the X coins sent to the merchant was first confirmed. In his side branch, the attacker includes a conflicting transaction sending the same X coins back to himself.
6.	In order for his attack to succeed, the attacker must build 61 blocks on his side branch faster than the rest of the network put together builds 60 blocks on the main chain.
(a)	To help conceptualize this task, let’s assume that the attacker purchased 10% of the total amount of currency being staked by the network to use for building his branch.
(b)	Since the block time in LFO is one minute, the target is set so that the entire network - all of the stakes being mined - should on average generate one block every one minute.
(c)	Hence, the expected time for the attacker to a generate a single block on his side branch is 10 minutes (since Y = 10%).
(d)	Meanwhile, the expected time for the rest of the network (collectively staking 90% of the currency) to generate a block on the main chain is 1.1 minutes.
(e)	To summarize, the attacker must build 61 blocks faster than the rest of the network builds 60 blocks, but his expected time to build each block is 10 minutes versus an expected time per block of 1.1 minutes for his competitor.
(f)	Intuitively, it’s clear that this is a very difficult task for the attacker, but it is hard to fathom just how difficult it is. The actual odds that the attacker will win this race are 1 chance in ~ 1035, or 1 in 100,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 
7.	To conclude this illustration, in the virtually impossible event that the attacker did succeed in building 61 blocks faster than the rest of the network, after the merchant sent the attacker the product, he would broadcast his side branch, invalidating the transaction he sent to the merchant and replacing it with the transaction he sent back to himself.
Given that this would-be attacker in the example above had to start his attack by purchas¬ing 10% of the total currency supply in order to have these infinitesimal chances of success, it is obvious that this attack will never happen in the real world. It should also be pointed out that it’s not as though the attacker had the chance to earn a huge reward.
His upside was simply to defraud a merchant of X LFOs (not the large amount Y used for the attack). And if the attacker were attempting to defraud the merchant of a large dollar value (say $10,000 or more), the merchant would have waited for far more than one hours' worth of confirmations.
To model the double spend attack mathematically[7], we consider an attacker with a portion p of the mining coins trying to attack a merchant who waits n confirmations. The probability to succeed is: 
Xien-i
1 — V J
k !
i=0
P[double spend] = 1 — ^
n
' ' 	 p
p\ n—%
 
with p the portion of mining coins owned by the attacker, q = 1 — p the portion of mining coins of the rest of the network, A = np the expected number of blocks generated by the attacker (modeled as a Poisson process) assuming the rest of the network took the average expected time per block to create n blocks.
p	1 conf. (1mn)	10 conf. (10mn)	60 conf. (60mn)	120 conf. (120mn)
1%	0.020	1.3 x 10-16	6.1 x 10-95	6.8 x 10-189
5%	0.10	1.3 x 10-09	5.0 x 10-53	4.4 x 10-105
10%	0.21	1.2 x 10-06	4.4 x 10-35	3.5 x 10-69
20%	0.42	0.0011	1.5 x 10-17	3.7 x 10-34
30%	0.63	0.042	3.7 x 10-08	2.3 x 10-15
40%	0.83	0.36	0.0083	0.00010
50%	1	1	1	1
Table 1: Probabilities of successfully completing a double spend in LFO base on the portion of staked coins used (p) and the number of confirmations required by the attack victim.
Role of minimum stake age in attempts to revise transaction history
Technically speaking, an attacker cannot conduct a double spend attack with a single stake because the minimum stake age prevents a stake from mining for 1.6 days after it has generated a block. Therefore, the attacker must split his stake into:
•	at least the number of confirmations used by the merchant plus one.
•	to increase his odds, a much greater number than the number of confirmations so his probability to mine successfully does not drop materially after mining each block.
Consider an attacker planning a double spend attack on a merchant who waits for 60 confirmations. Now consider three scenarios:
•	Scenario A: the attacker splits his stake into 100 UTXOs.
•	Scenario B: he splits his stake into 10,000 UTXOs.
•	Scenario C: he splits his stake into 1,000,000 UTXOs.
In all scenarios, his chances of generating his first block in a given timestamp is the same. This may seem counter-intuitive. It would seem that his chances of generating a block with
10.0	UTXOs would be higher than it would be with 100 UTXOs. However, one must recall that the chances of mining a block are directionally proportional to the size of the stake. So in scenario A each of the 100 UTXOs have a 100x greater chance of creating a block than the
10.0	UTXOs in scenario B.
Now consider what the scenarios would look like after the attacker has created 20 blocks: Scenario A: attacker has 80 UTXOs left with which he is trying to generate 40 more blocks. Note that he has 80% of his original stake available to mine. Scenario B: attacker has 9,980 UTXOs left with which he is trying to generate 40 more blocks. Note that he has 99.8% of his original stake available to mine. Scenario C: attacker has	9,999,980	UTXOs	left	with
which he is trying to generate 40 more blocks. Note that he has	99.9998% of his original stake
available to mine.
Since the probability of success decreases with the attacker’s stakes that cannot mine, it is clear that the attacker will want to split his stake into a very large number of smaller stakes in order to increase his chances. That said, we can see from our example that the gains from splitting into smaller and smaller stakes quickly diminish - improving from the use of 80% of the original stake to 99.8% is much more important than the further improvement to 99.9998%.
3.3.2	History revision using old private keys
In the previous section on double spends, it was shown that even in the case where an attacker owned a significant portion of all staked coins, he still faced infinitesimal odds of success. But proof-of-integrity critics have pointed out that attackers could actually attempt to rewrite transaction history without owning any of the currency. All they would need to do is acquire old private keys. In other words, they could use old stakes that were previously owned by third parties who had since sold them.
The history revision attack is in essence similar to the double spend attack. In both cases, the attacker creates a fork and attempts to extend it so that it becomes longer than the main chain.
However, in a double spend attack, the attacker starts his fork with no lag. When trying to rewrite history with old private keys, the attacker necessarily has to start the attack with a long lag, specifically, at the time in the past when the old private keys controlled UTXOs. Hence, the attacker must not simply generate X + 1 blocks in the time it takes the rest of the network to generate X blocks, as in a double spend attack. The history revision attacker must generate X + 1 + Y blocks, where Y is the number of blocks represented by the attacker’s lag behind the main chain. In addition, in double spend attacks where the attacker is using a stake that he actually owns (say 20% of all staked coins), the rest of the network with which he competes owns the remaining 80%. However, when using old private keys to 20% of the staked coins, the attacker is competing against not 80% of the staked coins but against 100% of them, because the attacker’s old coins are now owned by new parties who mine on the main chain.
So while it is theoretically possible for an attacker to obtain access (private keys) to another person’s old stake that they have already spent or sold, the downside is that the number of blocks that the attacker needs to build on his branch is daunting. Obviously, the further back in time that the attacker would begin his side branch, the closer to impossible his task becomes.
Let’s consider an example and make assumptions that would give the attacker his best possible chances. Rather than going back a long time, let’s just go back one hour. This is the shortest time that the attacker’s accomplice (the one who gave the attacker access to the private keys to his own stake) could have possibly sold off his coins assuming that the counterparty or merchant waited for one hour’s worth of confirmations.
Now let’s make the assumption that the attacker’s accomplice actually owned 10% of the entire supply of the currency that was being staked. This assumption is totally unrealistic because the merchant who acquired this gigantic quantity of coins from the accomplice would have waited for far more than one hour’s worth of confirmations.
Note that these are same numbers - 10% of the staked currency supply and 60 blocks - as in the double spend attack from the previous section. But in this attack, during the time that the attacker is generating those 60 blocks to catch up to the main chain (“revising history”), the main chain is marching forward in time generating its own blocks, which the attacker must also match and finally surpass. While in the double spend example the attacker had a one in 1035 chance of succeeding, in this history revision attack using the same 10% of staked coins, the odds have been cut to one in ~ 1095. Clearly, going back in time to start an attack makes things much harder.
Now let’s consider a scenario where the attacker gains control of old private keys for not 10% but rather 75% of the currency’s staked coins. But we will require the attacker to start his branch four hours (rather than just one) behind the main chain. In this case, despite having access to so much old currency, the attacker’s odds of ever catching up to the main chain are still less than ~ 10-57. It may seem surprising that an attacker would not be able to catch up to the main chain with anything greater than 50% of the staked currency. However, in the case of using old private keys, the attacker with 75% is not competing against the network with the remaining 25% of the coins but rather against the network with 100% (because the old private keys have new owners mining on the main chain).
For our mathematical model, let’s consider an attacker wishing to perform an n-deep reorganization and controlling a portion p of the coins taking part in the mining process at height Umax - n.
We can model the arrival of the blocks on the competing chain as a Poisson process. At time t after the beginning of the attack, the expected number of blocks the attacker will have created is p-, while in average the number of blocks on the main chain (starting at the fork) will be T + n. Therefore, the probability that the attacker’s branch is longer than the main chain at time t after the beginning of the attack is:
P \Poiss(p—) > a— + nl = r(a— + n, p-)
T	T	T	T
where r is the regularized incomplete gamma function, t is the average block time and a = 1 — p if the attacker still owns the coins used in the reorganisation attempt and 1 otherwise.
The following, very basic, upper bound of the cumulative probability is sufficient to show that the probability of an attacker ever catching up with the network is infinitesimal:
P[Success] < ^ r(ai + n,pi)
i=1
The following graph highlights the fact that the probability to catch up with the main chain decreases exponentially with how far behind the attacker starts: 
 
Figure 5: Upper bound for the probability of catching up starting n blocks behind for an attacker controlling different portions p of old private keys.
10-*
10 12 10™
10-28
fj 1036 I ltr“
S' 10=2
ra 10'“
10'5S KT75 10-“
10'92 IQ-ioo
I
 
The history revision attack can also be conducted with coins that the attacker still owns. In this case, the rate at which the main chain generates blocks depends on the portion of coins the attacker owns. The graph below shows that for the attacker to be successful, the attacker must own > 50% of the mining coins, i.e. > 50% of the mining power, like in a 51% attack on Bitcoin. 
Upper bound for the probability of catching up
 
Figure 6: Upper bound for the probability of catching up starting n blocks behind for an attacker owning different portions p of the total staked coins.
10-1 10 12 1020
10~2B
H 10-36
I 10-“
Jr io =2
1 10“
-Q O
CL. 10~6B 10'75 IQ-34
10‘92 IQ-iOO
(
 
Therefore, the only way for an attacker to revise history with less than 50% of the staked coins is to find a way to maliciously increase the mining power of his stake so that he con-sistently generates more blocks than the rest of the network combined. The next section describes an attack vector in which an attacker tries to gain such an advantage.
3.3.3	Grinding attack
The next idea that proof-of-integrity opponents have speculated about is the possibility of gaining a significant edge against the network by “cheaply searching the blockspace to find blocks that direct history in their favor”[8]. More concretely, they refer to“grinding” through kernels in order to improve the performance of his stakes. This attack sounds very compelling to a proof-of-work miner because it is analogous to grinding through nonces as fast as possible in order to generate a proof-of-work.
The rationale behind this attack is that since the inputs of the kernel are seeded from the chain the attacker is working on, and since the attacker is working on own branch, he can shape it as he wishes and might be able to find a seed that will allow him to perform significantly better than expected.
In Bitcoin, miners “grind” through block headers one by one. Proof-of-integrity designs use the stake modifier parameter - which modifies a large number of stakes - for the precise reason of preventing attackers from being able to grind through stakes one at a time, even if the attacker is alone on his branch. The only way they can grind through stakes is indirectly, through the stake modifier, which affects many stakes at once.
As we will see, this design feature makes the grinding attack impossible unless the attacker owns a very large portion of the total supply of coins being staked.
Step One - gaining control of the stake modifier
The first step of the grinding attack is for the attacker to generate blocks in order to gain influence over and eventually control the stake modifier. This step takes time and causes the attacker to accumulate a significant lag behind the main chain.
The process of gaining control of the stake modifier is very technical, difficult to express and difficult to follow. But the details do not matter. The only important takeaway is that the process takes a significant amount of time (at least hundreds of minutes).
The process is as follows:
•	 During the first 200 minutes  (the first modifier interval) of the attack, the attacker cannot grind through stake modifiers. He must use the stake modifier that was seeded from blocks from the main chain over the preceding selection interval (1.6 day, or ~ 2250 minutes).
•	When a new stake modifier is computed (200 minutes after the beginning of the attack), the new selection interval will encompass the 200 minutes of the attack plus the ~ 2050 minutes preceding the attack. Based on how many blocks the attacker managed to generate during the first modifier interval, the attacker now has some chance of controlling a small minority of the 64 bits of the new stake modifier. He will at most control 1 bit of the stake modifier. (Assuming that the attacker controlled 20% of the total staked currency, he would most likely control ~ 0.15 bit.) Even with 1 bit, the attacker has only gained the ability to grind through 2 stake modifiers. Obviously, this will not allow him to gain any advantage over the rest of the network.
•	The attacker repeats the same process over the next 10 modifier intervals (2,000 min¬utes), after which the entire selection interval will no longer stretch further back in time than the beginning of the attack.
•	The attacker is waiting to have sufficient bits under his control in order to be able to grind through a material number of stake modifiers. His final goal is to have control over all 64 bits. This can be done in no less time than ~ 1.6’ day (the selection interval). If the attacker owns at least ~ 3% of the total staked currency, he could expect to control the stake modifier at the end of this 1.6 day period.
Step two - grinding through stake modifiers
The object of the preceding subsection was simply to demonstrate that the attacker’s fork is hundreds of minutes behind the main chain.
In determining whether a grinding attack will succeed or not, it is not material whether the attacker’s chain is 400 minutes behind the main chain or 2,250 minutes behind. The only way to be able to catch up from “far” behind the main chain is to be able to consistently outperform the rest of the network.
In the following paragraphs, we will detail the attack in order to assess what portion of the mining coins an attacker must control in order to succeed with a grinding attack. While it’s obvious that an attacker controlling more than half of the mining coins would succeed, it is unclear to what extent grinding would lower this threshold. Proof-of-integrity critics instinctively assume that grinding through the block space would make it possible to revise history with a minute fraction of the coins. It will be shown that a very substantial portion of the staked coin supply is necessary.
In order to describe the grinding attack, we consider an attacker working alone on a fork and therefore having complete control over the block space. This allows him to modify the hash of blocks he creates34 in order to set the bits of a given stake modifier as he desires. For the sake of simplicity, we consider that the attack starts when the attacker has complete control over the current stake modifier.
In order to outperform the rest of the network and succeed in a grinding attack, the attacker must be able to create more blocks than the network is expected to create during the modifier interval.
Here are the steps:
1.	The attacker splits his stake into a very large number of UTXOs.
2.	The attacker will then search the stake modifier space and for every possible stake modifier, compute the hash of the kernel of every one of his UTXOs. Since the stake modifier is a 64-bit number, there are 264 (roughly 1019) possibilities for the attacker to grind through.35
34By incrementing the nonce for example.
35Grinding attacks require significant computing power in addition to large portions of the staked coins. For the following illustration, we assume that the attacker uses 10% of the hash power of Bitcoin’s network. Increases above this amount of hash power provide minimal gain.
3.	If the attacker is able to find a 64-bit string that allows him to generate more blocks than the rest of the network, he succeeds. He then proceeds to create the corresponding stake modifier.
Grinding Illustration
Consider an attacker that owns 20% of the total supply of staked coins taking the steps listed above.
The heart of the grinding attack is that the attacker must be able to create more blocks than the network is expected to create during the modifier interval. If an attacker owns 20% of the staked coins, the rest of the network would be expected to generate 160 blocks (80% times the 200 blocks in the 200 minute modifier interval). Therefore, the attacker needs to generate 161 blocks in 200 minutes.
The attacker splits his stake into a very large number of stakes. Let’s say 1 million stakes.
The attacker will then search the stake modifier space and for every possible stake modifier he computes the hash of the kernel of every one of his 1 million UTXOs. Since the stake modifier is a 64-bit number, there are 264 (roughly 1019) stake modifiers multiplied by 1 million UTXOs for the attacker to grind through.
The attacker is hoping to find a single stake modifier for which at least 161 of his 1 million UTXOs create a proof within the modifier interval.
With 20% of all staked coins, the attacker will on average find 40 blocks within this interval. The following graph shows the probability mass function for an attacker with 20% of the coins over the modifier interval.
In this particular case, the probability for a given stake modifier to create 160 kernels that will mine is ~ 10 — 46.
0.06 0.05 0.04 ¡0.03 0.02 0.01 0.00
Probability mass function
 
0	50	100	150	200
Blocks mined
Figure 7: Probability mass function for an attacker with 20% of the mining coins over a 200 minutes time interval.
With 20% of all staked coins, the attacker will on average find 40 blocks within this interval. The following graph shows the probability mass function for an attacker with 20% of the coins over the modifier interval.
As will be shown below, given LFO’s choice of modifier interval, a grinding attack would require an attacker to own approximately 30% of the total supply of staked currency (assuming he had access to thousands of ASICs’ worth of hash power).
Mathematical model of grinding attack
At every modifier interval, we model the arrival of the blocks on the attacking branch as a
Poisson process of intensity p times the intensity of all the mining coins combined. Therefore, the probability to create more blocks than the main chain is :
P(success)/trial = T (1 - p)
 
T
T
with p the portion of mining coins held by the attacker, r the regularized incomplete gamma function, Tmodifier the modifier interval and t the block time.
i - r (1 - p)
 
Therefore, the probability for an attacker to successfully conduct a grinding attack is:
P [success] = 1
with H/s the hash rate of the attacker, Nstakes the number of stakes the attacker controls (we
need N much larger than ^ but we don’t take into account the fact that probability to
succeed goes down if N is too small), 264 is size of the stake modifier space.
The graph below shows the probability of successfully conducting a grinding attack as a function of the portion of coins that he controls for different amounts of hash power. As we can see:
1.	Although the grinding strategy allows to lower the cost of a 51% attack, the attacker must still own north of ~ 30% to succeed. For a coin with a significant market, this provides a much greater level of security than proof-of-work, since acquiring ~ 30% of the coins would be orders of magnitude more costly than buying 51% of the hash power of the network.
2.	Although more hash power does decrease the percentage of coins necessary to conduct the attack, its influence is actually very limited. To draw a comparison, an attacker with ~ 51% of Bitcoin’s computing power would need ~ 30% of the coins whereas an attacker with a single ASIC miner would need ~ 34%. An attacker with a hundred times the hash power of the entire Bitcoin network would need to control ~ 29% of the coins.
 
Figure 8
To conclude this discussion on grinding in proof-of-integrity, here is a statistic for the critics who say it is “costless”mini to grind through the blockspace: if an attacker owned 10% of LFO’s staked currency and had access to all of the hash power of the Bitcoin network, his odds of success in a grinding attack would be one out of ~ 1087. By the way, there are only ~ 1080 atoms in the observable universe.
3.3.4	Preprogrammed, long-range attack
The final attack vector - the preprogrammed long-range attack - has an ominous name, but is not threatening at all to LFO’s design.
This attack involves putting together a collection of stakes that will perform very well in a specific time window in the future (potentially a year or more). This is a very potent attack vector against Peercoin due to Peercoin’s use of coin age in the mining equation (which allows “supercharging” stakes) and because Peercoin’s stake modifier yields a static value after the selection interval.
LFO chose to use a dynamic rather than static stake modifier for the principal reason of neutralizing this attack vector. With a stake modifier that changes at every modifier interval (200 minutes for LFO), attackers cannot pre-compute future proof-of-integritys. Without any way to precompute future stakes, there is no way to put together a collection of stakes that perform well in a future time window, which is the essence of this attack.
The paragraphs below describe how this attack works against a proof-of-integrity design with a static stake modifier.
In Peercoin, the stake modifier of a particular stake is computable after the selection in-terval and remains the same until it mines (or is used as an input in a transaction). Therefore, after the selection interval, all the components of the kernel are determined and the miner is able to predict at what time stamp the stake is likely able to mine. Although the target cannot be known precisely in advance, a miner can guess its future value with an acceptable margin of error.
In Peercoin, this allows an attacker to precompute future proof-of-integritys in order to carry out a long-range attack. The steps to conduct such an attack are as follows:
1.	The attacker splits his coins into a large number of stakes and chooses a distant time window (e.g. 1 year or more in the future) during which he wants to conduct the attack.
2.	After TSM, the stake modifier is generated and the attacker can compute the hashes of all the kernels for time stamps included in the considered time frame.
3.	The attacker keeps all the stakes that have a high probability of mining within that time frame and then resends all the remaining stakes back to himself (in order to modify their
kernels)
4.	He repeats the two previous steps repeatedly, in each cycle retaining the stakes that will perform well during the attack window, until the time of the targeted attack window.
5.	Once the attack window is reached, the attacker will be able to create proofs and generate blocks with the stakes he kept. If he has a high enough number of stakes that can generate blocks (say more than 60 to fool a merchant waiting for 60 confirmations), he may be able to perpetrate an attack. 
4	Marketing Model using LFO.
LFO (Local Family Owned)
Strategy/Long term plan

LFO stands for:
LOCAL FAMILY OWNED

What is LFO?
LFO is a free local telephone directory for local home owners to use when they want to find local family owned services. We have an 3 click information app, that guides the consumer to the business, resulting in high paying leads to the businesses.

How does LFO work?
Home owners use our free local telephone directory at no charge, and by doing so, local and family owned businesses earn a profit for their niche product or service. 

What are the benefits of using LFO?
-free to use
-easy to use
-makes things simple
-you can trust the service
-makes the buying process better for home owners
-creates incoming leads for local family owned business owners

What rules does LFO have?
LFO only has one rule and that is business owners must be currently reporting their workers to labor and industries in order to have their company on the free telephone directory and this rule was specifically created to protect home owners.

Are large corporations allowed to be on LFO?
Yes. Local means all local services. Family means all family services. The free phone directory does not discriminate in any way shape or form. Any and all local family owned business owners are allowed to benefit from the free telephone directory.

LFO is 100% free to all parties. A local family owned business owner can have their company name, address and phone number on the free telephone directory for no charge and local home owners can go to the web site and use it for free no charge.

How does LFO make money? 
LFO charges local family owned business owners a small monthly fee which is currently $10 per month to add their personal company website to the free telephone directory.

How does LFO get seen?
LFO has marketing experts design create and advertise directly to home owners in multiple ways which include the computer, and also direct marketing campaigns and doorstep pamphlets encouraging home owner to use the free telephone directory.

Where is LFO?
LFO is currently in Bellingham, Washington State.

How big is LFO?
LFO is currently on version one, opened December 15th 2015 and currently has over 1000 users in its target market area.

How big does LFO feel it can service?
LFO is currently only in one county developing model one with the idea that once model one is performing at optimal levels then the proven model will be scaled out with LFO Franchises worldwide. LFO would like to offer its services in all 3000 counties in the USA and globally in the near future.

What is LFO's Model?
•	-creates the best quality leads
•	-creates the most affordable leads
•	-promotes local pride in community
•	-connects home owners to business owners
•	-greatest direct marketing platform on the planet!

This paper has shown that LFO’s carefully chosen proof-of-integrity design, derived from Jeff Grants Full Integrity Coin, which itself was derived from Satoshi Nakamoto’s Bitcoin, is secure, cost-efficient and decentralized in the long run.
The paper has also demonstrated several drawbacks of Bitcoin’s proof-of-work design - including higher transaction fees in the long term, increasing centralization of mining and a divergence of interests between miners and Bitcoin holders - and shown how proof-of-integrity technology completely addresses these drawbacks by introducing two crucial differences:
1.	Rewarding miners based on number of coins owned rather than amount of electricity and computing resources spent - effectively replacing the operating costs of proof-of-work mining with the capital costs of holding coins;
2.	Making mining rewards proportionate to number of coins held and time passed since they last generated a reward, making them akin to interest payments on the miner’s coin holdings.
Since there are virtually no operating costs in proof-of-integrity, transaction fees can be far lower than for proof-of-work in the long run, regardless of transaction volumes. And because all proof-of-integrity miners earn the same rate of return regardless of computing hardware or electricity costs, there is no gradual centralization.
The paper also rebutted the proof-of-work community’s various “nothing at stake” ob-jections to proof-of-integrity and mathematically demonstrated that all commonly cited attack vectors would fail against LFO’s design, which increases security relative to Peercoin and other existing proof-of-integrity currencies in numerous ways, including:
1.	High mining rewards, lower minimum stake age and omission of coin age from the mining equation all incentivize nodes to continuously stake coins over time
2.	Decreased block time, improving user experience and enhancing security against some attack vectors
3.	Causing the stake modifier parameter to change over time for each stake, to substantially increase security against precomputation attacks
4.	Utilizing a client that punishes nodes that attempt to mine on multiple branches with duplicate stakes
As a result, LFO’s design solves both the mounting cost and centralization problems of proof-of-work, and the security and centralization problems with earlier proof-of-integrity coins. As such, LFO is the first peer-to-peer cryptocurrency, regardless of technology, that is secure, cost-efficient and decentralized in the long run.
References
[1]	G. Andresen. Neutralizing a 51% attack. http://gavintech.blogspot.fr/2012/05/ neutralizing-51-attack.html, 2012. [Online].
[2]	G. Andresen. Back-of-the-envelope calculations for marginal cost of transactions. https: //gist.github.com/gavinandresen/5044482, 2013. [Online].
[3]	Bank of England. One bank research agenda, discussion paper. http://www. bankofengland.co.uk/research/Documents/onebank/discussion.pdf/, 2014. [On¬line].
[4]	C. Decker and R. Wattenhofer. Information propagation in the bitcoin network. In Peer-to- Peer Computing (P2P), 2013 IEEE Thirteenth International Conference on, pages 1-10. IEEE, 2013.
[5]	M. J. Fischer, N. A. Lynch, and M. Paterson. Impossibility of distributed consensus with one faulty process. J. ACM, 32(2):374-382, April 1985.
[6]	S. King. Ppcoin: Peer-to-peer crypto-currency with proof-of-integrity. June 2012. [Online].
[7]	S. Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. Consulted, 1(2012):28, 2008.
[8]	A. Poelstra. Distributed consensus from proof of stake is impossible. 2014. [Online].
